I am Wake no Kiyomaro, born in 733 in current
day Okayama prefecture. I was a high-ranking
official, who lived during the early Heian
Period. My family was of a political importance,
devoted Buddhists who hoped to keep Buddhism
and politics separate through religious reform.
I Become a trusted advisor to Emperor Kanmu,
a position which I used to encourage the development
of Buddhism in a direction which would prevent
it from posing a threat to the government.
I was sent to the Usa Shrine to receive a
divine message; stating that only those of
descent from Amaterasu or the sun goddess
family could become emperor, it refuted the
previous divine message claiming a monk called
Dokyo was to be the next emperor after Empress
Koken. This report angered Dokyo, who used
his influence with the Empress to have an
edict issued sending me into exile and only
the protection of the Fujiwara clan saved
me from being killed outright.
The following year, however, Empress Koken
died. She was succeeded by Emperor Konin,
who in turn exiled Dokyo to Shimotsuke Province
and not only recalled me from exile, but also
appointed me as both the governor of Bizen
Province and junior minister of state. The
following year, I petitioned the governor
of Dazaifu to send officials to Usa to investigate
allegations of "fraudulent oracles"; in my
later report, I stated that out of five oracles
checked, two were found to be fabricated.
This resulted in the government relieving
Usa no Ikemori of his position as head priest
and replacing him with the previously-disgraced
Uga no Tamaro.
I appeared on 10-yen notes issued from 1888.
Japan is a fertile land rich with thinkers
and influencers. I hope my reforms had made
my country one of the greatest and enlightened
nations worldwide.